skills/slack-gif-creator/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: slack-gif-creator
description: "Knowledge and utilities for creating animated GIFs optimized for Slack. Provides constraints, validation tools, and animation concepts. Use when users request animated GIFs for Slack like \"make me ..."
license: Complete terms in LICENSE.txt
---

# Slack GIF Creator

A toolkit providing utilities and knowledge for creating animated GIFs optimized for Slack.

## Slack Requirements

**Dimensions:**
- Emoji GIFs: 128x128 (recommended)
- Message GIFs: 480x480

**Parameters:**
- FPS: 10-30 (lower is smaller file size)
- Colors: 48-128 (fewer = smaller file size)
- Duration: Keep under 3 seconds for emoji GIFs

## Core Workflow

```python
from core.gif_builder import GIFBuilder
from PIL import Image, ImageDraw

# 1. Create builder
builder = GIFBuilder(width=128, height=128, fps=10)

# 2. Generate frames
for i in range(12):
    frame = Image.new('RGB', (128, 128), (240, 248, 255))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(frame)

    # Draw your animation using PIL primitives
    # (circles, polygons, lines, etc.)

    builder.add_frame(frame)

# 3. Save with optimization
builder.save('output.gif', num_colors=48, optimize_for_emoji=True)
```

## Drawing Graphics

### Working with User-Uploaded Images
If a user uploads an image, consider whether they want to:
- **Use it directly** (e.g., "animate this", "split this into frames")
- **Use it as inspiration** (e.g., "make something like this")

Load and work with images using PIL:
```python
from PIL import Image

uploaded = Image.open('file.png')
# Use directly, or just as reference for colors/style
```

### Drawing from Scratch
When drawing graphics from scratch, use PIL ImageDraw primitives:

```python
from PIL import ImageDraw

draw = ImageDraw.Draw(frame)

# Circles/ovals
draw.ellipse([x1, y1, x2, y2], fill=(r, g, b), outline=(r, g, b), width=3)

# Stars, triangles, any polygon
points = [(x1, y1), (x2, y2), (x3, y3), ...]
draw.polygon(points, fill=(r, g, b), outline=(r, g, b), width=3)

# Lines
draw.line([(x1, y1), (x2, y2)], fill=(r, g, b), width=5)

# Rectangles
draw.rectangle([x1, y1, x2, y2], fill=(r, g, b), outline=(r, g, b), width=3)
```

**Don't use:** Emoji fonts (unreliable across platforms) or assume pre-packaged graphics exist in this skill.

### Making Graphics Look Good

Graphics should look polished and creative, not basic. Here's how:

**Use thicker lines** - Always set `width=2` or higher for outlines and lines. Thin lines (width=1) look choppy and amateurish.

**Add visual depth**:
- Use gradients for backgrounds (`create_gradient_background`)
- Layer multiple shapes for complexity (e.g., a star with a smaller star inside)

**Make shapes more interesting**:
- Don't just draw a plain circle - add highlights, rings, or patterns
- Stars can have glows (draw larger, semi-transparent versions behind)
- Combine multiple shapes (stars + sparkles, circles + rings)

**Pay attention to colors**:
- Use vibrant, complementary colors
- Add contrast (dark outlines on light shapes, light outlines on dark shapes)
- Consider the overall composition

**For complex shapes** (hearts, snowflakes, etc.):
- Use combinations of polygons and ellipses
- Calculate points carefully for symmetry
- Add details (a heart can have a highlight curve, snowflakes have intricate branches)

Be creative and detailed! A good Slack GIF should look polished, not like placeholder graphics.

## Available Utilities

### GIFBuilder (`core.gif_builder`)
Assembles frames and optimizes for Slack:
```python
builder = GIFBuilder(width=128, height=128, fps=10)
builder.add_frame(frame)  # Add PIL Image
builder.add_frames(frames)  # Add list of frames
builder.save('out.gif', num_colors=48, optimize_for_emoji=True, remove_duplicates=True)
```

### Validators (`core.validators`)
Check if GIF meets Slack requirements:
```python
from core.validators import validate_gif, is_slack_ready

# Detailed validation
passes, info = validate_gif('my.gif', is_emoji=True, verbose=True)

# Quick check
if is_slack_ready('my.gif'):
    print("Ready!")
```

### Easing Functions (`core.easing`)
Smooth motion instead of linear:
```python
from core.easing import interpolate

# Progress from 0.0 to 1.0
t = i / (num_frames - 1)

# Apply easing
y = interpolate(start=0, end=400, t=t, easing='ease_out')

# Available: linear, ease_in, ease_out, ease_in_out,
#           bounce_out, elastic_out, back_out
```

### Frame Helpers (`core.frame_composer`)
Convenience functions for common needs:
```python
from core.frame_composer import (
    create_blank_frame,         # Solid color background
    create_gradient_background,  # Vertical gradient
    draw_circle,                # Helper for circles
    draw_text,                  # Simple text rendering
    draw_star                   # 5-pointed star
)
```

## Animation Concepts

### Shake/Vibrate
Offset object position with oscillation:
- Use `math.sin()` or `math.cos()` with frame index
- Add small random variations for natural feel
- Apply to x and/or y position

### Pulse/Heartbeat
Scale object size rhythmically:
- Use `math.sin(t * frequency * 2 * math.pi)` for smooth pulse
- For heartbeat: two quick pulses then pause (adjust sine wave)
- Scale between 0.8 and 1.2 of base size

### Bounce
Object falls and bounces:
- Use `interpolate()` with `easing='bounce_out'` for landing
- Use `easing='ease_in'` for falling (accelerating)
- Apply gravity by increasing y velocity each frame

### Spin/Rotate
Rotate object around center:
- PIL: `image.rotate(angle, resample=Image.BICUBIC)`
- For wobble: use sine wave for angle instead of linear

### Fade In/Out
Gradually appear or disappear:
- Create RGBA image, adjust alpha channel
- Or use `Image.blend(image1, image2, alpha)`
- Fade in: alpha from 0 to 1
- Fade out: alpha from 1 to 0

### Slide
Move object from off-screen to position:
- Start position: outside frame bounds
- End position: target location
- Use `interpolate()` with `easing='ease_out'` for smooth stop
- For overshoot: use `easing='back_out'`

### Zoom
Scale and position for zoom effect:
- Zoom in: scale from 0.1 to 2.0, crop center
- Zoom out: scale from 2.0 to 1.0
- Can add motion blur for drama (PIL filter)

### Explode/Particle Burst
Create particles radiating outward:
- Generate particles with random angles and velocities
- Update each particle: `x += vx`, `y += vy`
- Add gravity: `vy += gravity_constant`
- Fade out particles over time (reduce alpha)

## Optimization Strategies

Only when asked to make the file size smaller, implement a few of the following methods:

1. **Fewer frames** - Lower FPS (10 instead of 20) or shorter duration
2. **Fewer colors** - `num_colors=48` instead of 128
3. **Smaller dimensions** - 128x128 instead of 480x480
4. **Remove duplicates** - `remove_duplicates=True` in save()
5. **Emoji mode** - `optimize_for_emoji=True` auto-optimizes

```python
# Maximum optimization for emoji
builder.save(
    'emoji.gif',
    num_colors=48,
    optimize_for_emoji=True,
    remove_duplicates=True
)
```

## Philosophy

This skill provides:
- **Knowledge**: Slack's requirements and animation concepts
- **Utilities**: GIFBuilder, validators, easing functions
- **Flexibility**: Create the animation logic using PIL primitives

It does NOT provide:
- Rigid animation templates or pre-made functions
- Emoji font rendering (unreliable across platforms)
- A library of pre-packaged graphics built into the skill

**Note on user uploads**: This skill doesn't include pre-built graphics, but if a user uploads an image, use PIL to load and work with it - interpret based on their request whether they want it used directly or just as inspiration.

Be creative! Combine concepts (bouncing + rotating, pulsing + sliding, etc.) and use PIL's full capabilities.

## Dependencies

```bash
pip install pillow imageio numpy
```

Commit message:

fix: resolve SKILL.md validation errors

skills/slack-gif-creator/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: slack-gif-creator
description: "Knowledge and utilities for creating animated GIFs optimized for Slack. Provides constraints, validation tools, and animation concepts. Use when users request animated GIFs for Slack like \"..."
license: Complete terms in LICENSE.txt
risk: unknown
source: community
---

# Slack GIF Creator

A toolkit providing utilities and knowledge for creating animated GIFs optimized for Slack.

## Slack Requirements

**Dimensions:**
- Emoji GIFs: 128x128 (recommended)
- Message GIFs: 480x480

**Parameters:**
- FPS: 10-30 (lower is smaller file size)
- Colors: 48-128 (fewer = smaller file size)
- Duration: Keep under 3 seconds for emoji GIFs

## Core Workflow

```python
from core.gif_builder import GIFBuilder
from PIL import Image, ImageDraw

# 1. Create builder
builder = GIFBuilder(width=128, height=128, fps=10)

# 2. Generate frames
for i in range(12):
    frame = Image.new('RGB', (128, 128), (240, 248, 255))
    draw = ImageDraw.Draw(frame)

    # Draw your animation using PIL primitives
    # (circles, polygons, lines, etc.)

    builder.add_frame(frame)

# 3. Save with optimization
builder.save('output.gif', num_colors=48, optimize_for_emoji=True)
```

## Drawing Graphics

### Working with User-Uploaded Images
If a user uploads an image, consider whether they want to:
- **Use it directly** (e.g., "animate this", "split this into frames")
- **Use it as inspiration** (e.g., "make something like this")

Load and work with images using PIL:
```python
from PIL import Image

uploaded = Image.open('file.png')
# Use directly, or just as reference for colors/style
```

### Drawing from Scratch
When drawing graphics from scratch, use PIL ImageDraw primitives:

```python
from PIL import ImageDraw

draw = ImageDraw.Draw(frame)

# Circles/ovals
draw.ellipse([x1, y1, x2, y2], fill=(r, g, b), outline=(r, g, b), width=3)

# Stars, triangles, any polygon
points = [(x1, y1), (x2, y2), (x3, y3), ...]
draw.polygon(points, fill=(r, g, b), outline=(r, g, b), width=3)

# Lines
draw.line([(x1, y1), (x2, y2)], fill=(r, g, b), width=5)

# Rectangles
draw.rectangle([x1, y1, x2, y2], fill=(r, g, b), outline=(r, g, b), width=3)
```

**Don't use:** Emoji fonts (unreliable across platforms) or assume pre-packaged graphics exist in this skill.

### Making Graphics Look Good

Graphics should look polished and creative, not basic. Here's how:

**Use thicker lines** - Always set `width=2` or higher for outlines and lines. Thin lines (width=1) look choppy and amateurish.

**Add visual depth**:
- Use gradients for backgrounds (`create_gradient_background`)
- Layer multiple shapes for complexity (e.g., a star with a smaller star inside)

**Make shapes more interesting**:
- Don't just draw a plain circle - add highlights, rings, or patterns
- Stars can have glows (draw larger, semi-transparent versions behind)
- Combine multiple shapes (stars + sparkles, circles + rings)

**Pay attention to colors**:
- Use vibrant, complementary colors
- Add contrast (dark outlines on light shapes, light outlines on dark shapes)
- Consider the overall composition

**For complex shapes** (hearts, snowflakes, etc.):
- Use combinations of polygons and ellipses
- Calculate points carefully for symmetry
- Add details (a heart can have a highlight curve, snowflakes have intricate branches)

Be creative and detailed! A good Slack GIF should look polished, not like placeholder graphics.

## Available Utilities

### GIFBuilder (`core.gif_builder`)
Assembles frames and optimizes for Slack:
```python
builder = GIFBuilder(width=128, height=128, fps=10)
builder.add_frame(frame)  # Add PIL Image
builder.add_frames(frames)  # Add list of frames
builder.save('out.gif', num_colors=48, optimize_for_emoji=True, remove_duplicates=True)
```

### Validators (`core.validators`)
Check if GIF meets Slack requirements:
```python
from core.validators import validate_gif, is_slack_ready

# Detailed validation
passes, info = validate_gif('my.gif', is_emoji=True, verbose=True)

# Quick check
if is_slack_ready('my.gif'):
    print("Ready!")
```

### Easing Functions (`core.easing`)
Smooth motion instead of linear:
```python
from core.easing import interpolate

# Progress from 0.0 to 1.0
t = i / (num_frames - 1)

# Apply easing
y = interpolate(start=0, end=400, t=t, easing='ease_out')

# Available: linear, ease_in, ease_out, ease_in_out,
#           bounce_out, elastic_out, back_out
```

### Frame Helpers (`core.frame_composer`)
Convenience functions for common needs:
```python
from core.frame_composer import (
    create_blank_frame,         # Solid color background
    create_gradient_background,  # Vertical gradient
    draw_circle,                # Helper for circles
    draw_text,                  # Simple text rendering
    draw_star                   # 5-pointed star
)
```

## Animation Concepts

### Shake/Vibrate
Offset object position with oscillation:
- Use `math.sin()` or `math.cos()` with frame index
- Add small random variations for natural feel
- Apply to x and/or y position

### Pulse/Heartbeat
Scale object size rhythmically:
- Use `math.sin(t * frequency * 2 * math.pi)` for smooth pulse
- For heartbeat: two quick pulses then pause (adjust sine wave)
- Scale between 0.8 and 1.2 of base size

### Bounce
Object falls and bounces:
- Use `interpolate()` with `easing='bounce_out'` for landing
- Use `easing='ease_in'` for falling (accelerating)
- Apply gravity by increasing y velocity each frame

### Spin/Rotate
Rotate object around center:
- PIL: `image.rotate(angle, resample=Image.BICUBIC)`
- For wobble: use sine wave for angle instead of linear

### Fade In/Out
Gradually appear or disappear:
- Create RGBA image, adjust alpha channel
- Or use `Image.blend(image1, image2, alpha)`
- Fade in: alpha from 0 to 1
- Fade out: alpha from 1 to 0

### Slide
Move object from off-screen to position:
- Start position: outside frame bounds
- End position: target location
- Use `interpolate()` with `easing='ease_out'` for smooth stop
- For overshoot: use `easing='back_out'`

### Zoom
Scale and position for zoom effect:
- Zoom in: scale from 0.1 to 2.0, crop center
- Zoom out: scale from 2.0 to 1.0
- Can add motion blur for drama (PIL filter)

### Explode/Particle Burst
Create particles radiating outward:
- Generate particles with random angles and velocities
- Update each particle: `x += vx`, `y += vy`
- Add gravity: `vy += gravity_constant`
- Fade out particles over time (reduce alpha)

## Optimization Strategies

Only when asked to make the file size smaller, implement a few of the following methods:

1. **Fewer frames** - Lower FPS (10 instead of 20) or shorter duration
2. **Fewer colors** - `num_colors=48` instead of 128
3. **Smaller dimensions** - 128x128 instead of 480x480
4. **Remove duplicates** - `remove_duplicates=True` in save()
5. **Emoji mode** - `optimize_for_emoji=True` auto-optimizes

```python
# Maximum optimization for emoji
builder.save(
    'emoji.gif',
    num_colors=48,
    optimize_for_emoji=True,
    remove_duplicates=True
)
```

## Philosophy

This skill provides:
- **Knowledge**: Slack's requirements and animation concepts
- **Utilities**: GIFBuilder, validators, easing functions
- **Flexibility**: Create the animation logic using PIL primitives

It does NOT provide:
- Rigid animation templates or pre-made functions
- Emoji font rendering (unreliable across platforms)
- A library of pre-packaged graphics built into the skill

**Note on user uploads**: This skill doesn't include pre-built graphics, but if a user uploads an image, use PIL to load and work with it - interpret based on their request whether they want it used directly or just as inspiration.

Be creative! Combine concepts (bouncing + rotating, pulsing + sliding, etc.) and use PIL's full capabilities.

## Dependencies

```bash
pip install pillow imageio numpy
```

## When to Use
This skill is applicable to execute the workflow or actions described in the overview.
